[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory today we are going to
be talking all about self-forgiveness
and how to overcome failure this is one
of the most important things that you
can learn to do well all of us are going
to fail not once not twice but a lot
we're going to be failing over and over
and over in our lives
and by the end of our time together you
are going to understand one immutable
truth that failure is actually
how it is the very part of the process
that allows you to be successful in the
end and we're going to talk about why
that is i'm going to touch on this from
a bunch of different angles tactics on
how to deal with your own self-esteem
how to get back up when you've been
knocked down
how to think about the very nature of
failure so we're going to go into all of
that all right without further ado
here's the first question i am reading
mindset the book by carol dweck and i'm
sure you've talked about it before but
i'd love to hear any personal examples
of you having to overcome the fixed
mindset i believe my long history of a
fixed mindset has led to a plethora of
self-sabotage disbelief in myself and a
fear of failure so deep
that it's paralyzing okay well the good
or bad news is that i can completely
relate to that and here is the reality
no matter how
successful the person is that you're
looking at and wishing you could be like
them and thinking that they have
everything all figured out the one thing
that i can promise you is that all of us
struggle on the inside that is just a
reality of the human condition once you
understand that that is a reality that
that's just a part of the human
condition then you can begin to ideally
let yourself off the hook and that
you're not spending a lot of time
stuck there but to give you a specific
example from my life the biggest one the
most harrowing one that i went through
was in film school so
uh
to cut a very long story short i went to
film school believed that i had innate
talent i went into film school with a
fixed mindset
i did very well at the beginning of film
school and that all to me felt like it
was proof that i was right that i was
naturally gifted that i was a born
storyteller and that i was going to go
and have an illustrious career and i
actually went through a fascinating
period in film school where i was both
terrified that secretly i wasn't good
enough and but at the same time actually
believe that i was naturally gifted and
this is what i was meant to do and
every bit of feedback that i got in
either direction was
it made me believe to the core of my
being that it was true so when i would
do something poorly i would think see
that part of me that was convinced that
i actually don't have talent you were
right and then i would do something well
and the part of me that believed that
was like see i knew it you were born for
this and it all came crashing down as i
work my way up the ranks at usc film
school um only four people are chosen to
direct what's known as a senior thesis
film or a 480. and i was one of the four
people picked and i was like see i knew
it man i'm born for this of course i got
picked to do one of the senior thesis
films that just makes sense i'm i'm that
good and i thought okay cool the thing
that makes the thesis film so important
is the film school pays your budget to
make this film so at a time where
there's no youtube there's no iphones
like filming is an expensive endeavor
here you've got somebody that's paying
for it and that becomes your calling
card to the industry so
george lucas famously made one of these
films and obviously we know how his
career ended up working out and they
showed us his 480 by the way and it was
amazing
it was amazing and so
you could see that here was this gifted
filmmaker
and so i have that in my head like look
at george lucas's films absolutely
brilliant he's gone on to have this
brilliant career i'm gonna make an
equally brilliant film or maybe a little
more brilliant and then i'm gonna go
become the next lucas or the next
spielberg and i'm gonna take that film
and get my three picture deal
and
i proceeded to
[Music]
run smack bang
into one immutable truth
and that was that i wasn't a talented
filmmaker
and i don't say that to be humble i say
that out of truth because i didn't have
the skill set to make a good film once
the level of complexity had gone beyond
a certain level so i had thrived in
these really short really simple films
and then once you're talking actors and
dialogue and you know the things that
would come close to what we would
recognize as a normal film
i had no idea what i was doing
and
try and try as i might i couldn't figure
out how to make the film come out well
and it didn't come out well and i was
mortified and i was embarrassed and i
never wanted anybody to see that film
and i was really and truly devastated so
i want you to imagine your whole life so
what i graduated at like 22. so
from 12 to 22
all i knew was i wanted to be a
filmmaker and my whole life was moving
towards that and it looked like i had
the natural gift and of course if you're
gonna be an artist you're either born
with it or you're not right that's all
anybody said i can't express enough
in the 80s and 90s when i grew up
when people talked about art you either
had it or you didn't and that was that
there was no sense of growth mindset
carol dweck had not written the book yet
and so it wasn't even like i knew there
was a growth mindset and a fixed mindset
i just knew you're either born with it
or not
the great news was i was born with it
here we go it's going to be amazing and
then boom i can't do it and i realize oh
my god i wasn't born with anything
i don't know how to do this there is a
tremendous amount of process to this art
and i don't know that at all but of
course as i'm in the middle of it i just
think my world has come crashing down
i'm not gifted i will never be gifted
and therefore i will never be a
filmmaker i will never make anything of
myself and just it was a downward spiral
of epic proportions
and
at the height of that
i would
go home from my dead end job
and i would lay
face down
on the carpet because i couldn't afford
furniture
and
literally just sit there i can still
feel
that cheap nylon carpet and the way that
it felt on my face
as i laid there thinking well
my life is effectively over certainly
the
my life that was working towards a dream
is over
and
now it's just about finding a way to uh
be the smartest person in the room
and if that means that i have to go and
work a dead-end job to be the smartest
person in the room then that's what i'll
do and so i used to go
an interview for jobs having nothing to
do with film
because i felt totally broken and
my goal was to at some point in the
interview have the interviewer say
you're so smart why are you interviewing
for this role
and
because i had a fixed mindset and i so
needed that praise from the outside i
was putting myself in these super weird
and
useless positions just to get that
little nugget of oh my god like you're
so smart
and i had to put myself in sort of worse
and worse company to get to that point
and
finally and i don't remember what it was
that
led me to this idea of brain plasticity
but somewhere in the depths of my
despair i realized
can we get better
maybe we can
and so i started reading about the brain
and that started to plant seeds in my
mind that maybe brain plasticity was
real and maybe i could get better and
just because i wasn't good at film today
maybe i could get better at film down
the road and i ended up getting a job
teaching film because remember those
that can do those that can't teach so i
felt like okay well i can teach this
even if i can't do it and then so
between reading about the brain and
realizing wait a second
if i work at this thing i actually get
better my brain actually changes and i
become better at something and
given you know having gone through
however many years of schooling i'd been
through i started thinking about like
wait a second you would come into any
class and the funny thing is as a kid i
remember every grade just being
absolutely terrified that well i did
okay at being a fourth grader but mom
i'm gonna get devastated as a fifth
grader i don't know what i'm doing and
no matter how many times my mom would
console me and say remember they're
gonna teach you
how to learn the things that a fifth
grader needs to know they don't expect
you to already know it it just wouldn't
sink in and so i was sort of back in
that moment of
you know i don't know how to do this
but maybe
my mom is right maybe the
neuroscientists are right and maybe i
can learn
to become that thing i want to become i
start teaching film
and as i'm teaching it i realize wait
i'm helping my students become better
filmmakers so if i can help them become
better filmmakers and brain plasticity
is really true then i could get better
as a filmmaker myself
and that
that realization changed the rest of my
life and this is why i
am so obsessed with the idea of
a growth mindset and brain plasticity
because the biology backs it up
and once you understand it's what i call
the only belief that matters the only
belief that matters is that if you put
time and energy
into getting better at something you'll
actually get better
and that those skills have utility so
learning how to make a better film
means you can actually make a better
film and more people will go see it and
be moved by it and they'll pay for the
tickets and they'll buy the plush toys
but that all came down to you went and
got good at telling stories you went got
good at making movies but it was a skill
set that you garnered now of course
we're not blank slates so some of us are
going to learn that process easier and
typically when somebody learns something
easier we say oh they were born with it
but the reality is well they may have
had a
they get a disproportionate return on
the amount of time that they spend
studying that thing the reality is they
still have to study that thing and so
you don't find people achieving just
levels of greatness you know even take a
lebron who the amount of time that he
spends working on his craft making sure
that his body's in peak physical
condition reading the game all of that
he has to do all that even though
he has also incredible natural talent so
it can be useful to look for areas where
hey i
have a love for this thing and i'm good
at it
i get a disproportionate return that's a
better way to think of it that when i
put energy into learning this thing i
get maybe 1.3 x
return on that versus somebody else who
might get a 0.7 return but what i want
everybody to understand is you get a
return
and so once you understand that you get
a return it may take you longer you may
have to work harder than somebody else
but if you love it enough and you want
to be that thing then you can become
that thing and so that was exactly how i
got myself out of that downward spiral
and working my way up to feeling good
developing confidence and understanding
that
now
if i can get good at anything that i
want
then how i spend my time becomes a
spiritual consideration
and when you approach life like that
like i can be good at anything maybe not
the greatest of all time maybe you need
like that disproportionate returns thing
but you can get
i'll just i'm going to start saying you
can get 100 times better at anything
that you pursue right
if you can get a hundred times better at
anything
imagine how that will change your life
if you pick something that matters to
you and helps other people and you get a
hundred times better at that thing over
the course of 40 years than you are
today
that is a game changer will change your
life it will change your financial
situation it will change your emotional
situation everything about your life
changes when you realize you can
dedicate yourself to getting good at
things that matter
and so that is
the classic example from my life of
where i was completely mired in a fixed
mindset i had never even heard of a
growth mindset and i had to cobble the
tenants together on my own carol dweck
i'm looking at you you uh if only you
had written that book 15 years earlier
uh could have saved me from a lot of
struggle and strife
and
ultimately it was just about what worked
and that's the biology of it
if you put
dedicated time and energy to getting
better at something
you will get better
there it is all right guys if you're
going to unlock your potential and
achieve everything you've ever wanted
you are going to have to constantly be
making progress towards your goals so
what do you do when you get stuck the
bad news is getting stuck happens to
everyone at some point it's pretty much
unavoidable but the good news is that if
you're willing to take action there is a
framework that you can follow to get
back on track if that sounds familiar or
if you're stuck in a rut and not
achieving your goals as fast as you want
i've pulled a class out of impact theory
university that you need to watch right
now it's called six steps to getting
unstuck and you can watch it for free at
unstuck.impacttheory.com
inside i'll teach you about how to use
cognitive reframes my four-level value
stack to becoming unstoppable as well as
the single most important thing to start
doing today
to regain momentum to watch this free
preview for impact theory university go
to unstuck.impacttheory.com
i'll see you on the inside guys alright
take care and now back to the episode
right next i often get stuck in my
thoughts should could or would have or a
trigger will bring me back to something
i could have done better how do you stop
revisiting the past mistakes in a loop
and actually use them to grow and expand
your life experience into more wisdom an
actual concrete technique would be
appreciated
okay so
here is the technique that i use around
woulda coulda shoulda
so
i have a
belief
and a rule so my belief is that it
doesn't make sense
to do or believe anything that doesn't
move you towards your goals
and then i have a rule which is that
same thing stated as a to do basically
which is that i do not allow myself
to do or believe anything that moves me
away from my goals
okay so i believe that it just makes
sense to make sure that you have a goal
that's exciting and honorable but once
you have an exciting and honorable goal
then you want to make sure that you
filter every decision that you take
through is this leading me towards my
goal or not
and
if you have a belief that oh man i
should have done this better if only i
would have done this
if thinking about that and feeling badly
about that actually helps you and by the
way sometimes it does
briefly you don't want to live there
then use that
use that to spur you on to get better to
learn more to work harder next time to
analyze the failure and figure out what
it is you're going to learn
do all of that
and
when you have that energy that's
nature's way that pain that's nature's
way of making sure that you focus in
fact that pain lights up regions of the
brain that have to do with focus and
attention so now you've got your focus
and attention on this failure
what you could have done differently in
the past you're reevaluating it
you're going to pay more attention going
to learn that skill now you're going to
move forward better than when you
started in fact henry ford has a quote
failure is simply the ability to begin
again but this time more educated
so
all right word that's what failure is
now when it becomes a problem
is when you allow yourself to stay in
that pain you allow yourself to stay in
that mode that you keep coming back to
it and it's just corroding your sense of
self it's making you feel worse about
yourself it's making you feel less
likely to take action in that moment i
use a cognitive behavioral therapy
technique called a pattern interrupt and
i pattern interrupt and i say hey
i don't allow myself
to do or believe
anything
that moves me away from my goals so i
have officially taken this too far i'm
feeling badly about something that i
wish i had done differently but now it's
becoming corrosive it's no longer giving
me that springboard forward i'm spending
too much time here so now done stop
and i force myself to think about cool
you know that you can get good at
anything so now
what in that failure
has been revealed that you're not good
enough at that thing yet
go get good at that thing or
find a partner who can do that for you
or
say okay that's not the thing that i'm
going to pursue it would take too much
time and energy for me to get good at
that thing like take magic for instance
i'm [__] obsessed i love magic
close-up magic you can imagine i really
love it
i've taken classes i've practiced and
it's really fun but when i think about
the amount of time that it would take to
actually get good
[__] that way too much time another
example there was a brief period in my
life where i wanted to become a stand-up
comic true strange perhaps but true
and
i went and did an open mic night and i
was okay i was funny ish
and
i stayed it was uh on open mic night you
get like a bunch of nobodies and then
followed by some big names that uh they
come out they do their thing but they're
trying new material so it's not
particularly funny if i'm interested if
i'm honest and so i'm sitting there and
at first there's like 350 people and
then there's you know 275 and then 115
and then by the end of the night it was
literally like eight of us nine of us
and me and my friend are like all right
we just cannot take one more
comic trying out material this is
getting really torturous and so we get
up to leave and this guy's manager comes
out and he says hey
the person who's about to come out is
the funniest man in america you are not
going to want to miss this
and i look at my friend and i'm like all
right [__] it this is the last guy let's
just stay and we'll have done the whole
night and this guy comes out and he does
his routine
and if you've ever heard of mitch
hedberg it was mitch hedberg the guy's a
[__] legend
and
when you're done with this video go look
up mitch hedberg
he was so funny
that i actually thought to myself can
you die from laughing because i could
not catch my breath i was laughing so
hard and the way that his joke structure
is he's giving you another punch line
like every 30 seconds so i'm like barely
winding down from the joke before and he
hits you with another one
i am literally doubled over in hysteria
gasping for air wondering if i'm gonna
die laughing and
at the end of his routine when he walked
off the stage i was like well
to get that good and by then i was
beginning to believe that i could get
good at things to get that good
i would have to dedicate the rest of my
life to it and i'm not prepared to do
that
and that was a real eye-opening moment
of okay so compared to him i was a
catastrophic failure
and
my response wasn't oh i'm a loser i'm a
failure my response was all right pony
up man you can get that good but whoa
you need to be honest about what it
would take to get there and then just be
honest with yourself about what it would
take and whether or not you want to do
it you want to put in that time and the
energy to get that good and then if you
don't then don't lie just say i'm not
funny enough and i'm not interested in
pursuing that skill set and when you say
it like that then you know that you're
on the hunt for the thing that matters
enough to you that you're going to see
something through now talking about
drive and how to build that's outside of
the scope of this conversation but you
get the idea it is
very freeing to just say
okay i could get that good
but i'm just not interested enough in it
doesn't mean i don't like it
it just means that i'm not interested in
pursuing that skill set
so
that's the
technique
that i use to deal with that whenever my
mind is going somewhere negative and if
you do that every time your mind goes
somewhere negative you either use it as
that impulse to push you forward to go
learn what you need to learn
or if it's now corrosive and you're
spending too much time there you pattern
interrupt you get out of it you remind
yourself that you can learn anything
and now it's just a question of whether
you want to spend the time and the
energy to learn that and don't waste
time lamenting that so many things come
too hard to you doesn't [__] matter
that's just a question of how badly you
want it because let me tell you
virtually nothing in my life comes
easily to me and yet
i've built a life that i absolutely love
even though some of the things that i
have to deal with are a [__] struggle
and i look at other people that they get
that disproportionate return that i wish
that i had
and i've still been able to build a life
that fills me with joy and fulfillment
and ironically in not
pursuing money i have made money
pursue the joy pursue the fulfillment
use the techniques they work
emotions should never stop you from
achieving your goals so if you feel
stuck overwhelmed low on confidence
you're beating yourself up or you feel
like you're not deserving of the things
you want in life i have something to
tell you emotions are not facts and you
should never let them hold you back and
yet i find that people do this all the
time they mistake that feeling for
objective truth and it sends them in
this downward spiral
reaching greater levels of success in
life means knowing how to use your brain
and if you're in a rut right now or if
you've been struggling for a while to
achieve your goals then i've pulled a
class from impact theory university to
help you get back on track it's called
six steps to getting unstuck and it's
for anyone who wants to know the exact
steps to achieving big goals when life
puts challenges in your way if you want
to check it out go to
unstuck.impacttheory.com
to get access it's a free preview
alright guys i'll see you on the inside
now let's get back to today's episode
hey tom
how do you consciously learn from your
mistakes so that you fail forward
instead of blindly repeating the same
mistakes over and over again i mean if
failure is the richest data stream
available
how do you effectively collect and
analyze the data
damn that's a good question okay getting
good at this is very important and most
people start out not good at this and so
this is one of those things where
putting the time and the energy into
figuring it out is very important now to
figure it out the exact how is what i
call the physics of progress and i teach
a whole class on this by the way if
anybody's interested i have a whole
university called impact theory
university i highly encourage each and
every one of you guys to sign up for
that
and in that i teach the physics of
progress so i'm going to give you a
condensed version now the reason i call
it the physics
of progress is because this is first
principles this is just the nature
of how one makes progress
okay so to make progress
and to fail forward to really figure out
when you make this catastrophic error
you have to conceptualize it in the
right way so when you're trying
something recognize that as a hypothesis
so number one is to recognize i have a
goal
my goal is over there i'm here there's a
gap between my goal and i
i need to know what that gap is i need
to understand it i need to know what the
impediment is i need to recognize why if
i just keep doing the thing that i'm
doing now why am i not going to get
where i'm going okay so first you have
to identify that now once you identify
that then it becomes a question of what
is your best guess which we will call
which is called a hypothesis so you make
that hypothesis which again is just your
best guess as to what you need to do
it's very important this isn't thinking
we're not going to live in the abstract
that when we finish this it's going to
tell us to do something so what would i
need to do
in order to overcome the obstacle that
stands between me and my goal if your
major goal is like way down the road
you're going to have to break it down
into smaller goals and so this goal with
my next 15 minutes is how i tell people
to think of it when you understand your
goal clearly enough and you understand
the impediments clearly enough you know
exactly what you should be doing with
the next 15 minutes
okay that's the level of clarity that
you need so okay cool
i've identified this
what the thing is that i believe
i need to do it's a guess
don't wait for lightning to strike don't
wait for anything to be self-evident
you have a best guess as to what you
should do with the next 15 minutes and
then your 15-minute stack up to your
best guess you know over
a week or a month or a quarter you know
whatever however big that project is
then you're going to do that thing
so i have a hypothesis on what would be
the most efficient way most effective
way for me to overcome this obstacle and
then i'm going to do that thing
and that thing is either going to work
or it's not
and if it works amazing did it work as
well as it could have
if not and i have to do this it's
something i have to do again then refine
and do it again if it did then what's my
next obstacle and i'm going to do that
one now eventually you're going to do
something and it doesn't work it either
you stood still or you made so little
progress as to be
unworthy of celebration or maybe you
even move backwards maybe this is that
moment where you totally embarrass
yourself maybe this is something that
happened down in public and now you look
like a total ass
and in that moment you need to go okay
why
did this not work okay so this is where
we analyze the data now the key to
analyzing the data is before you run
this experiment you need to say what
success looks like so all right if i
think here's my best guess as to what i
need to do to overcome this problem
and here is what success will look like
so um let me give you an example
we had a hypothesis i still can't
believe that this is true but it is we
had a hypothesis here on our youtube
channel that
if we put
guests
if we took a photo of them or pulled a
screenshot from the episode where
they're doing something with their hands
that the click rate will go up and that
the click rate will positively impact
our monetized views okay so that's our
hypothesis we test it
i still can't believe this is true but
it works and it doesn't just work most
of the time it works almost all of the
time nothing is you never have one
blanket statement where it truly works
for everything but i'm talking north of
so hey we had this hypothesis it worked
we did it now the number of times where
we had a hypothesis hey uh
put make the text white with a
um drop shadow
we tried it and that didn't work and
it's like wow i can't believe that
didn't work it looks so much better than
black text
but it keeps losing over and over and
over so in that moment it's like okay
well i really thought this was going to
work but it didn't work and you try
something else now when it's something
where there's a motion involved that
gets harder for people to get clear on
what the data is and that's why you have
to have a
a very clear understanding of what
success looks like and i think it was oh
god if i'm misremembering who said this
cal newport
i think
uh is the one that every time he gives a
talk he asks his students to rate him or
if he's talking for a corporation he
asks them to rate him and tell him what
he could be doing better
and so the way he's giving his
presentations of course is his best
guess on how to be the most dynamic
speaker highest rank most likely to be
brought back and
he inevitably falls short of that now
when people tell him oh man you did this
and that was really dumb or whatever
that hurts
but he knows that he's got to do this
iterative process that that is the
physics of progress that you try
something it fails to some degree you
get the data right so his data would be
if this works my students will rate me
at a 9.3 or higher on my evaluations
okay well if he gets a 7.6 it is very
clear that he didn't get what he wanted
and then he seeks the feedback
as to why
that didn't work and what people liked
didn't like and then he refines it and
tries again and tries again so just by
running this iterative process
constantly seeking that feedback not
being afraid to get quantitative
feedback people are actually giving you
numbers so whatever it is you're doing
you need to know what success looks like
so you know if you missed the mark and
then you just iterate iterate iterate
and that
is how you deal
with failure when you want to fail
forward
physics of progress baby there it is all
right next up how would you
differentiate between being a failure
and having failures i've started many
projects that due to my head space i
left big projects how would you know
you're not the problem and that you
really are just experiencing a failure
and you're not just incapable okay
here's the irony
odds are that you really are incapable
and that's why you're not getting the
results that you want now remember back
to the first thing that we said
just because you're incapable today does
not mean you have to become or stay
incapable tomorrow so
you can
by putting the only belief that matters
by putting time and attention into
something you will get better at it
so people should not be afraid to
realize that they're incapable right so
the story that i could tell myself about
um
filmmaking at that period in my life is
oh you're just being humble you know
look how far you've come you've used
storytelling to build massive companies
like clearly you did have something it
just needed to be brought out of you no
i didn't have anything and that doesn't
mean that i'm not valuable as a human
being
i'm hopelessly average as are most of us
that's where the word average comes from
and since we know
you can just guess
you're somewhere right at the top of
that bell curve baby and since all of us
roughly speaking probably fall into that
average zone odds are that you're
average so i was like cool i'm not going
to bs myself i'm hopelessly average but
the average human is capable of
extraordinary growth and so now i'm just
going to put all of my time and
attention into growing and getting
better and so
recognizing that when you think of
yourself as a failure what you're saying
is that i am locked in time and space
that i can't get better it's the
definition of a fixed mindset but when
you have a growth mindset and you know
no matter where you're at today no
matter how incapable you are no matter
how much that project failed entirely
because of you
you can get better and you can get a
different result next time and so all
you want to do is comb through that
experience to find out what you need to
do differently in order to be more
successful next time and so you do just
have to get good at really getting rid
of the emotion so that you can clearly
see had i done this i think i would have
gotten a better result and then you try
that maybe that was right maybe it's not
you rethink about it okay what if i did
this you try that and then you do enough
iterations you're gonna make progress
so thomas edison said it took him and
his team 10 000 different light bulbs
before they found the ones that we know
and love today
so
it's important to recognize
that
every attempt discarded is another step
forward
and edison used to say i didn't fail 10
000 times i just found 10 000 ways that
didn't work
and that little shift makes a big
difference
so don't be afraid to be incapable
simply recognize what you're going to
need to do in order to get capable and
then decide whether you're willing to
put the time and the energy into it or
not and the people that you see that are
successful are the ones that put in the
work to become capable they were not the
people that were born special
all right
what kind of questions do i need to ask
myself after facing a failure
there's really only a couple
one
you need to ask yourself what is the
nature
of the human animal
the reason that's important is
if it is true that the nature of the
human animal that as a species
we have chosen
adaptation right we're not the strongest
we're not the
fastest we don't have the sharpest claws
or the strongest jaw
and yet
we have
absolutely
dominated
this planet
and the way that we have
become the apex predator of all apex
predators
is by our ability to adapt
to a changing environment
okay so if that's the
direction that our species took instead
of being like a horse and coming
pre-wired with everything we come with
the ability to learn
that's like our unfair advantage and it
has propelled us to the heights that we
see before us
then
i just need to ask is that true of the
human animal yes it's true it's just too
obvious to refute okay well then if
that's true
then
can i not get better at this thing yes
of course i can okay might be harder for
me but i can get better cool if i can
get better then what do i need to get
better at
and then once i know that am i willing
to do that thing to get better
but it's all on me
it's nobody else it's not the outside
world's not holding me back my genetics
didn't let me down this comes down to
your willingness to believe the only
belief that matters that with time and
attention
you will get better you will garner
improved skills
and then having the drive to see that
through
and that my friends
is how you joyfully
deal with failure because it really is
the most information-rich data stream it
triggers that area the areas of your
brain that have to do with focus and
memory
in the doing you learn faster than you
will in the abstract by going out there
and being in the thick of it and trying
things you're constantly getting like
all this feedback from the world from
your own body from what works and moves
you forward from the market from other
people
all things you'll never get by sitting
and thinking about it so
read learn for sure watch videos all
that's incredibly powerful but then
immediately put it to use pick something
from this video whether it's a pattern
interrupt or the phrases that i repeat
to myself or learning about the brain
do it today
don't wait till tomorrow do it today
deploy the physics of progress today
sign up for impact theory university
two-day that one was self-serving but i
promise you it will change your life it
is me pouring my heart and soul
into giving you all the tools i wish i
had in my early 20s because
holy lord did it change my life and
could have ended a lot of suffering far
sooner all right i hope this video will
save you guys from some suffering i
really hope that until next time my
friends be legendary take care peace
you